And he had some musical ability because he roomed with a guy whose name was Cantu from Raymondville.
But he liked to sing.
And that there was no heating or cooling in these dormitories.
They had the old steam heat regulators that really generated no heat.
But they were there more to make you think there was heat.
But that when he would get ready to take a shower in the cold days,
that all of our freshmen stripped to the bus.
And I want to say that there were probably 14 to 16 of us left by that time, November and December, that we all had to go stand at attention with our backs against the wall in the shower while he took a hot shower and led the singing of Christmas carols.
And that I can well remember with my back and bare buttocks
and heels against the wall while this guy took a warm shower.
I mean, it is a wonder that we didn't have half of us with pneumonia when we went home at Christmas.
But that was our privilege to go down there when he got ready and he liked to take a shower about 11.30 at night.
And so every freshman fell out and went down there and we sang Christmas carols.
That first fall, describe a typical weekday
that had classes and all that, when did it begin?
When did it end?
And describe through the day what all was part of the routine?
The routine would not be always the same, rarely the same.
But I think that one of the goals, unspoken or unspoken, was you ran off as many freshmen as you could by Christmas.
If you made it to Christmas, everything was okay.
I can't recall why, but there was a period of time in our outfit E2 back then where we had to X, take a magic marker or something, and we'd strip our bed.
And we had to put an X on one side on the mattress cover, flip it over, and put an O on the other side.
And Monday, Wednesday, and Friday,
They had to be able to lift up, the room inspector, which was always a sophomore, would have to lift up your pillow and check to see whether everybody had an X showing.
Tuesday, Thursdays and the other day would have to have an O to do it because every day you had to strip your bed, flip your mattress, remake your bed.
And it had to be done to their satisfaction.
So it means it had to be done real well.
And back then, that if you were in a rank and somebody had committed some transgression, real or otherwise, and the question was asked, who left the light on, who forgot to lock the door, who did this?
Every freshman would answer in unison, I did, sir.
And that many times that we stood at attention, you know, 20 of us, 25, 30, whatever the number,
in a small room at attention listening to someone harangue about something that I was clueless.
We were in two dormitories, even if it happened in the other dormitory, and believe me, I never went in that other dormitory, that they carried on and you just said, I did it.
If I can digress for just a minute that James Ray, whom you'll probably talk to, was a POW.
shot down in Vietnam.
He was a couple of years ahead of me.
I believe he was class of 62 or 63.
But that I had known him because he was head of the student center and I had worked over in the student center and knew him from there because there was a lot more relaxed, less formality and class structure over there.
But I felt in my heart of hearts that anybody that had gone through A&M, being a prisoner of war was a terrible thing, but if there was anybody that would be able to handle it,
it would be somebody that had gone to A&M because, you know, what could somebody do to you that was much worse than your fellow Aggies, albeit upperclassmen Aggies, did to you anyway?
But it, you know, it made no sense to me that we would do things and we would carry on and it was busy work or harassing work, but it did forge the unity and that working on the bonfire.
Let's talk about that.
What was bonfire like in that era?
It had to rain.
It had to be cold.
The freshmen and really the sophomores had so little involvement in it other than manual labor.
that it really had very little significance in terms of it was just something that you went out and did.
Where did you go out to?
I have no idea.
You got in the truck and they took you somewhere.
You know the old story of the mushroom.
We were kept in the dark all the time.
So, you know, we just went out and we did.
And I can recall standing guard around the bonfire.
I mean, it took, as I found out later, it took aviation fuel to start it.
And I don't know who in his right mind first cared about torching the Aggie bonfire, but we always guarded like America would fall.
Right now, did you go out to the cutting area?
Yes.
About how far out of town do you remember?
I don't remember.
Wasn't nearly as far as they probably have to go now because what did you all use to cut the trees down with?
Well, remember that freshmen and sophomores did no cutting back then.
That what we did was lifting and carrying.
and that they would slide smaller trees under the big logs.
Somebody had already cut the tree down, had trimmed it by the time we were involved in it.
And we'd go over and we'd slide, I would call them oversized fence posts under it, but there might be 20 per side.
I mean, you know, you were just closer than close ranks marching.
and everybody picked it up and you moved it to some area.
It was just manual labor at that time.
When did that effort by y'all, when did that begin in the fall?
Do you remember?
I cannot remember.
All I can remember from it is every year it rained and was cold.
I was here in the year that Kennedy was assassinated and the bonfire was not burned.
But that as far as being a part of the management
The things, I think, red pods and brown pods and all of that is certainly within the last 35 years.
And Bonfire in your era was held where?
It was held over behind Duncan Dining Hall.
Back there, the band would come and everything.
I mean, I have some memories of Bonfire.
But the one that sticks out in my mind was perhaps Joe Bush.
I think he was class of 67.
That I was not here for the bonfire of 66.
But that how moved he was, and they always read the last court trip.
or it was memorized, and he was the head yell leader, and that he was killed later on the day that Nixon was denying that we had any involvement in Cambodia.
He was on one of the long-range reconnaissance teams, and that was the day that they attributed his death in Cambodia.
But I remember him reading that because he cried
And nobody made fun because he cried that there really was that camaraderie that it's hard for me to envision.
How can 43 students have camaraderie?
How can they have this, I'll go to the ends of the earth, fight the biggest dragons, swim the broadest river feeling?
There are just too many of them.
That 1963 year, the Kennedy assassination, the bonfire was completed, wasn't it, just about?
Very close to because I don't think it was completed because they generally worked up until just moments before it was torched.
And I'm trying to remember if that was a Friday, but for some reason that I'm remembering that that
Everything came to a standstill on the campus that, of course, you did not wear your hat in the MSC, but no one wore a hat.
You walked back and it's probably the only time as a student that I ever crossed the campus that no one spoke.
And did you remember any student questioning whether it was appropriate to cancel Bonfire?
None whatsoever.
I surely didn't.
I don't recall anybody doing it.
Back then, it's difficult to sit here in the year 2000 and talk about things that happened in 1963 because things were so different.
Attitudes were so different.
Mores were so different then that Kennedy was the commander-in-chief and that the commander-in-chief had been killed and that I'm sure that many
A&M graduates that went into the military, went in well conditioned to a chain of command.
That was one of the things that we had memorized from the president down through who was, it was then 4th United States Army out of San Antonio.
At that time, I could tell you who was the commander of the 4th United States Army and the deputy commander of 4th United States Army.
And that we knew that chain of command and that we had lived in a society where freshmen were one group at one level and station in life, sophomores another, juniors another, seniors another.
Back to that first year or two, the day routine.
What time did you get up?
Well, I probably got up around 5 o'clock.
There was a period of time that I would get up at 3.30 because I went to work at the radio station in those times.
They could sign it on as early as 4 o'clock back then, and I had a job before school, and I would work 4 to 6.
Then I would come and wait tables.
Then I would go to class, 8 till noon, 8 till 1, something like that, and would go back in the afternoon to work.
And the question you've not asked is, what time did you go to bed?
And with the exception of Wednesday nights, I probably went to bed at 7.30, 7.45, 8 o'clock, as quickly as I could.
Once the day was over, if you did not go out of your room, your hole, as a freshman, by and large, nobody came in to harass you in your room.
It was a safe sanctuary.
And so that once you had completed supper, back then if you took, you know, if you took your shower, if you got back to your room safely, nobody bugged you.
Taking PE, that you got to shower every day anyway.
And as I recall, there was a sink in the room and you could shave in your room and get your drink of water.
And that if I were going to get up at 3.30 or so anyway, that what any need to be out of the room?
That first fall, do you remember a court trip?
Was it important?
We made them.
I just don't really have any recollection of it.
I can recall that every other year, of course, we went to Austin.
But my freshman year, Texas played here.
And the reason that sticks out in my mind is in my four years at A&M, my four football seasons here, we won a total of 10 games because Jim Meyer won four games my freshman year.
One of my dad's brother was a graduate of Texas.
and lived up in Paris, Texas, and they had a Swedish exchange student, the stereotyped blonde, chunky, I can't imitate the Swedish dialect, but that they played here, and they were coming to the game and wanted to give her the Aggie experience, and she was my date to the freshman game.
I don't recall if I ever had another date while I was at A&M, but I recall this girl.
And that the tradition, which everybody already knows about after every score, that you get to kiss your date, and that was just the tradition and that sort of thing.
Texas outscored us that year 25 to nothing.
So I shook her hand when she left.
So you didn't get to kiss?
No foreign experience.
You didn't get to kiss your date.
But I remember that part.
I actually, other than sleeping...
more people to a room than the health department or the fire marshal would allow.
I really don't have a lot of great vivid experiences because I was
In the 90th Division, I was working in radio a great deal of the time, as much time as I could get in, at the student center, waiting some tables.
I guess a lot of the people who came, that the main thrust, if the only thrust of their life, was their student experience.
But mine was much broader than that.
In later years, in working in the student center, that I handled a lot of the publicity,
And that back there in the early 60s, when there was only one television station here, Channel 3, and no cable as we know it today, that I was on television a great deal there because anything that happened at A&M, that if there was a student that was going to come and talk about it, I was the one.
And they had a woman named Billie Jean Barron that had a,
town talk program, and that I was on that with some frequency.
That things that we had that went on in the student center, in addition to SCONA, they had the Space Week.
Olin Teague was the congressman and on that House subcommittee, and so that we had people up here.
And may I digress and tell another story?
I think this occurred when I was a junior.
that they finally had jockeyed around and Congressman Teague had gotten an astronaut scheduled to speak at the Space Expo, and I'm sorry that I can't remember the exact name of it.
And that I had been involved in correspondence that generally everything was, you know, a student did it.
And so that when a correspondence went out, it went out under cover of a student's signature.
And so they had been sending letters.
The student center here had been sending letters down to NASA in Houston, Clear Lake, working on getting this astronaut.
Williams was his name.
He was later killed in a plane crash.
But they had done it.
And finally, the day came where it was getting close to the time the astronaut was scheduled to come up here.
And a phone call was placed by someone down in NASA
up here to the Student Center and during the course of the conversation they were trying to coordinate all this and someone said to a secretary or someone, what does Bob Bell do there?
And the young lady or whoever it was answered, he works for the MSC, the Memorial Student Center.
The person on the other end asking the question interpreted as, he works for the Mann Spacecraft Center.
And so he said, well, have Mr. Bell come down to NASA.
We're going to do this, you know, two, three days beforehand.
Have him come down here so we can, we'll go over everything in person.
And so I, as a 20-year-old, went down to NASA by myself, impressed beyond...
Anything that I had ever done in terms of security, of being monitored, escorted, could even go to the bathroom there while yourself.
Did not get to meet the original Mercury 7, but I saw them.
They were in a meeting, and I went there and saw them all at one time.
Met with the guy that came up here, Williams.
met with him, but all over a misunderstanding, they thinking I worked for the MSC Manned Spacecraft Center, and I was actually making $100 a month, you know, as a gopher at the Memorial Student Center.
Very good, very good.
What about, still in the freshman year, what about some good bull or pranks which either you participated in or knew about?
During cold weather, we had a freshman named Whitley from Quero, Texas.
I'm remembering that he is the one, and I think that he was the one that there was very little to do but on a very cold, bitter Saturday that
Three or four hundred of us freshmen decided to go to the movie.
I say that figure in jest, you know, 15, 20 or something.
There was nothing to do.
Believe me, there was nothing to do.
And it was a freshman privilege at the old campus theater over here that the freshmen got to sit in the balcony.
And Fish Whitley, the ringleader of all this, as I recall, we stopped at Uncle Charlie's grocery store over here at...
Northgate, and he bought a bottle, one of the small boxes of Quaker oats, the oatmeal.
And getting into the movie that he got some freshman to go down and to get a soft drink with no ice.
And of course the movie was packed.
And up there, I am told, that he had the freshman with the soft drink right beside him, and he, excuse me, he opened the box of oatmeal and poured about half of it out, poured some of the soft drink into the box, put the lid back on and shook it up quietly, and waited for a quiet moment in the dialogue of the movie,
and stepped up the rail and said, oh my God, I think I'm going to be sick, and poured this mixture of oatmeal and soda water over the rail, and the theater cleared very rapidly.
And did we catch hell, and what for?
For days and days, I mean, you know, I'm thinking that this was after football season, but before Christmas, because it was miserable.
I mean, Christmas came, you got out about a week before Christmas, and we just couldn't wait for the break to get there.
I mean, everybody was on us like ugly on a gorilla.
for this particular thing.
And that seemed like an innocent enough thing to me, unless you were sitting under the balcony, because as I'm again recalling, that there was a pecking order, that the seniors got the best seats, whether that was all the way in the back or the middle or wherever they wanted to sit, the juniors got the second pick, but it was all very segregated by your class.
And that the recipients of his blessing were probably all A&M students.
Well, there wasn't anybody else out there who would go to a thing like this because whenever you had a movie on there, that the funniest thing about the movies was not necessarily the entertainment on the screen, but people would talk to it and make comments during the movie.
So, I mean, any time you were going to a movie, you were hearing wisecracks and that sort of thing.
But there was nothing to do.
What about other good bull you remember?
Well, my birthday is December 3rd, and we had a senior named Meiers, M-E-I-E-R-S.
Great big guy, probably the biggest guy in the company.
No, second biggest guy.
A guy named Lednicki was the biggest guy.
And it would have been, what would have been that year?
19, I guess.
that legal drinking age was 21, and so Myers was well known for buying booze for underage Aggies.
And so he bought, I'll say, two six-packs in three or four of my friends.
One of them had a car.
We went to the Skyway Drive-In Theater, and when I came back, or we came back, you know, with a little bit of beer on our breath, probably drinking two beers and would be drunk as skunks, that he was waiting for us at the door and put us on the bullring.
then, you know, which I guess we'll call this good bull, but he had purchased the beer, the two six-packs, at 6 o'clock in the evening, and at 11 o'clock, you know, was waiting to write us up and put us on the bull ring.
And I recall that when we came back, it was January before the semester ended, that the weather was bad, and I don't recall that we had to march that.
But I think we all had to sit a bullring and study, which probably was a blessing in disguise.
But that was quote-unquote good bull back then.
What was it like to, let's say back to classes, do you remember anything as a freshman that you and your buddies did in class that was a prank or a
Back then, because of the class structure, and there were a lot of sophomores taking freshman English again, a lot of sophomores taking introductory math, a lot of sophomores taking History 105, the introductory courses at all levels.
No sir, we really didn't do much.
The only time you ever really had a class
where it was exclusively freshman, would have been in freshman ROTC, that I don't recall a great deal about that, but that it was such a caste class system that whether you were in the dormitories, whether you were off campus, wherever you were, you were still the low man on the totem pole, even though when you were on court trips or in the community or had a date, you always had sophomore privileges, which is to say sophomore status,
but you couldn't do anything because the sophomores or juniors or somebody controlled everything.
The other class that I took was Spanish as a freshman.
So I took 16 hours and that I can recall
as a sophomore taking fourth semester spanish that there was a senior in there taking fourth semester spanish for the fourth time trying to get that four semester liberal arts requirement out of the way so you always had someone that outranked you in a class system in there and they you know there was there was very little that you could do i mean you couldn't
cut up or anything.
It was all very serious.
In terms of going to class, did you and your buddies go to class regularly?
And how did you behave in class?
Well, in class, as freshmen, you did not misbehave.
And I'm sure that there were some that were in there.
I would characterize myself as a very average student.
probably because I worked a lot and I did what I needed to do in order to make grades, but I only made the
honor roll, I forget what they called it there, the 225 one semester or maybe two semesters that got you some recognition for academics.
Generally, I was a student that made high C's and low D's, but the students that made good grades that I was, I failed to understand how someone could get grades if they didn't go to class
But it was just the nature of the college life that they were only interested, it was outcome-based education.
If you could pass the course, if you just read it the night before or knew it in advance, then you were A-OK.
That first year, what did the, in terms of the rigor and the quality, what did it seem to you that the A&M standards were?
The things I was good at, I was very good.
The things I was not good at, I wasn't very good at all.
So courses that I had not ever had a course in writing as such.
So when you go in and you're taking your writing courses in your two semesters of freshman English, that I had to struggle with that and actually learn something.
I've never been very good in math.
And so algebra and trigonometry were challenges to me.
I think I made two Ds, but passed them.
And the history courses, I generally made A's and B's.
That was my major.
And I understood, I enjoyed the storytelling or the dialogue in reading about something that at least was entertaining if I didn't realize that didn't have a whole heck of a lot of application when you get to be 35, 45, 55 years old, unless you're on some game quiz show on TV.
How did life change for you as a sophomore?
At that point, I had moved off campus because I was working more.
taking the courses and actually school for me was on an equal par of work and school because, again, I was not getting much financial support.
I would have been 19 turning 20 my sophomore year that I basically had to pretty much be self-reliant.
My folks were both schoolteachers, and if anybody checks schoolteacher wages back in that era, that there weren't many rich schoolteachers.
Still aren't, but for sure back there, there weren't a whole lot of them.
And that I didn't put a great deal of emphasis on the academics portion
There was never a goal other than this was something I needed to do to go on to the next level.
At that point, I was still giving some consideration to the military, but I was also starting to think about some other things in terms of liking to teach.
That I found what some of them I perceived as being entertaining,
in classes, in English and history classes, because I started taking Ivy League, Taylor's courses then for sure.
I liked economics, and that when it was all said and done that I graduated with my major in history, a minor in English, but I believe I was only one course short of having a double minor in economics, because I can recall taking, I guess it was 403, taking some high-level economics courses because it made some sense to me.
And that when I started looking at courses to take once you had some latitude, that I basically tried to take courses that took up as no more than just the lecture time.
If you went to a Spanish class, you generally had to spend some time at least sign in at the Spanish labs where you listened to the tapes.
If you took a science course, which was not my strength, you would have to go to labs,
But if you took a lecture course, such as history, economics, I did take a couple of journalism courses, that the only time you spent in class, you know, devoted to it was the time you spent in class.
And so that kind of shaped my academic life.
So as a sophomore, you're a day duck?
Yes.
And you then got to escape from then on the core, much of the core routine?
No.
You got to escape the dormitory routine.
Okay.
But they had a day room here.
There were three outfits.
There was one Air Force and two ground pounder, two Army units that were the day duck outfits.
And you had a day room where you had to go in it every day.
generally twice a day, they would say, to check for messages, and that was the way it was communicated instead of having a formation.
But you went in it there.
A lot of times that when you got to be a sophomore, you really didn't catch any more of the guff, that mainly that was inflicted on you as a freshman.
Once you'd gotten to be a sophomore, it was no more a big deal, that you knew everybody
And that at that point where if you met a junior or senior, whether it was in a class, on the campus, or anything, you were just another sophomore.
They didn't care anything about you.
And really, once you got to be a junior or senior, you really didn't care about the sophomores or the freshmen, that it was only the sophomores that made life unhappy for the freshmen.
Let's see, MSC.
When did you discover the MSC and what role did it play in your undergraduate days?
One of the things we had to do as freshmen is you had a night where everybody was lined up, every unit marched over there in your cleanest, best fitting outfit and you went through the student center